cDAC: Add GetGCDescSeries contract API and continuation pretty-printing (#127419)
dotnet/runtime: docs/design/datacontracts/RuntimeTypeSystem.md

    public virtual bool RequiresAlign8(TypeHandle typeHandle);
    // True if the MethodTable represents a continuation type used by the async continuation feature
    public virtual bool IsContinuation(TypeHandle typeHandle);
    // Returns the GC pointer runs for the method table as (offset, size) pairs. Each
    // run starts offset bytes from the beginning of the object and includes size bytes

>     // of contiguous pointers.

Reviewer: I agree clarifying that the object start == method table pointer location is a good clarification. I think its clearer to call the values returned in the tuple (offset,size) because each one represents one element in a series, not necessarily the entire series.

>     public virtual bool RequiresAlign8(TypeHandle typeHandle);

Reviewer 2: Add docs for the actual GCDesc data contract?

    // True if the MethodTable represents a continuation type used by the async continuation feature
    public virtual bool IsContinuation(TypeHandle typeHandle);

>     // Returns the GC pointer runs for the method table as (offset, size) pairs normalized to actual byte lengths.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    // Returns the GC pointer runs for the method table as (offset, size) pairs. Each
    // run starts offset bytes from the beginning of the object and includes size bytes
    // of contiguous pointers.
    // For handles representing value types the object is assumed to be stored in the
    // boxed layout.
```

    {
        // Returns empty if not a method table or has no GC pointers.
        // Compute objectSize: baseSize + numComponents * componentSize.
        // For non-array types, numComponents == 0 so objectSize == baseSize.

        // Read NumSeries from (mtAddress - pointerSize), sign-extended to native width.
        // NumSeries == 0 → empty.

        // NumSeries > 0: Regular series.
        // Used for normal objects and reference-type arrays (e.g. object[]).
        // Memory layout (each slot is pointer-sized, growing away from MT):
        //
        //   MT - (2*N+1)*ptrSize : series[N-1].seriessize
        //   MT - (2*N)  *ptrSize : series[N-1].startoffset
        //   ...
        //   MT - 3*ptrSize       : series[0].seriessize
        //   MT - 2*ptrSize       : series[0].startoffset
        //   MT - 1*ptrSize       : NumSeries (positive)
        //   MT                   : MethodTable
        //
        // The raw seriessize is stored with baseSize subtracted.
        // Add objectSize back to get the true run length:
        //   trueRunLength = rawSeriesSize + objectSize
        // For non-arrays objectSize == baseSize, recovering the actual run.

>         // For arrays objectSize > baseSize, extending the last series across all elements.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        // For arrays objectSize > baseSize, extending the single series across all elements.
```
Arrays only have one series. 'Last' is technically correct but a bit misleading.

    public bool RequiresAlign8(TypeHandle typeHandle) => !typeHandle.IsMethodTable() ? false : _methodTables[typeHandle.Address].Flags.RequiresAlign8;

    public bool IsContinuation(TypeHandle typeHandle) => typeHandle.IsMethodTable()
        && ContinuationMethodTablePointer != TargetPointer.Null
        && _methodTables[typeHandle.Address].ParentMethodTable == ContinuationMethodTablePointer;

    IEnumerable<(uint Offset, uint Size)> GetGCDescSeries(TypeHandle typeHandle, uint numComponents = 0)
    {
        // Returns empty if not a method table or has no GC pointers.
        // Compute objectSize: baseSize + numComponents * componentSize.
        // For non-array types, numComponents == 0 so objectSize == baseSize.

        // Read NumSeries from (mtAddress - pointerSize), sign-extended to native width.
        // NumSeries == 0 → empty.

        // NumSeries > 0: Regular series.

>         // Used for normal objects and reference-type arrays (e.g. object[]).

Reviewer 2: > reference-type arrays (e.g. object[]).

It used for arrays that only contain GC references. For example `(string, string)[]` that is an array of valuetypes is going to use it too. (It is more efficient than the value class series.)

Reviewer 2: It is not necessary to explain the exact condition when it is each encoding going to be used. These conditions are not part of the contract.
